.TH THROCAT 1 "March 2025" "throcat" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
throcat \- rate-limiting TCP proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B throcat
.B \-l
.I listen
.B \-u
.I upstream
.B \-s
.I speed
[\fB\-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fItimeout\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B throcat
listens on a TCP address, forwards connections to an upstream, and can
rate-limit traffic in both directions. With rate limit disabled (\fB\-s\fR 0 or
no-limit) it acts as a simple TCP relay (socat-style). Useful for simulating
constrained or variable links (e.g. benchmarking).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-listen " \fIaddress\fR"
Listen address (required). E.g. 127.0.0.1:10001.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-upstream " \fIaddress\fR"
Upstream address to forward to (required). E.g. 127.0.0.1:1393.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-speed " \fIspec\fR"
Speed in KB/s (required). Fixed (e.g. 50), range (e.g. 30\-60), or 0 / no-limit
for plain relay.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interval " \fIspec\fR"
When speed is a range: interval in seconds to pick a new rate. One number
(e.g. 5) or range (e.g. 3\-7). Required when \fB\-s\fR is a range.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Do not log the listen address at startup.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Log each connection open and close.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " \fIduration\fR"
Idle connection timeout (e.g. 30s, 5m). 0 = no timeout (default).
.SH EXAMPLES
Plain relay:
.RS
.EX
throcat \-l 127.0.0.1:10001 \-u 127.0.0.1:1393 \-s 0
.EE
.RE
.PP
Fixed 50 KB/s:
.RS
.EX
throcat \-l 127.0.0.1:10001 \-u 127.0.0.1:1393 \-s 50
.EE
.RE
.PP
Variable rate 30\-60 KB/s, new rate every 5s:
.RS
.EX
throcat \-l 127.0.0.1:10001 \-u 127.0.0.1:1393 \-s 30\-60 \-i 5
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
socat(1), iperf(1)
